Add tutorial on integration testing (#4881)
ros2/ros2_documentation: source/Tutorials/Intermediate/Testing/Integration.rst

              # There should have been 100 messages received
              assert len(msgs_rx) > 100
          finally:
              self.node.destroy_subscription(sub)

      def test_logs_spawning(self, proc_output):
          """Check whether logging properly"""
          proc_output.assertWaitFor(
              'Spawning turtle [turtle1] at x=',
              timeout=5, stream='stderr')

Note that the way we listen to the 'turtle1/pose' topic in ``test_publishes_pose`` differs from :doc:`the usual approach <../../Beginner-Client-Libraries/Writing-A-Simple-Py-Publisher-And-Subscriber>`.
Instead of calling the blocking ``rclpy.spin``, we trigger the ``spin_once`` method - which executes the first available callback (our subscriber callback if a message arrived within 1 second) - until we have gathered all messages published over the last 10 seconds.
The package `launch_testing_ros <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing_ros/index.html>`_ provides some convenience functions to achieve similar behavior,
such as `WaitForTopics <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing_ros/launch_testing_ros.wait_for_topics.html>`_.

> If you want to go further, you can implement a third test that publishes a twist message, asking the turtle to move, and subsequently checks that it moved by asserting that the pose message changed,
> effectively automating part of the `Turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to go further, you can implement a third test that publishes a twist message, asking the turtle to move, and subsequently checks that it moved by asserting that the pose message changed.
This effectively automates part of the `Turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.
```

> .. TestingIntegration:
> 

Reviewer: Since this is a new tutorial that has nothing linking to it, we don't need this.

```suggestion
```

Writing Basic Integration Tests with launch_testing
===================================================

> **Goal:** Create and run integration tests on the ROS 2 Turtlesim node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Goal:** Create and run integration tests on the ROS 2 turtlesim node.
```

**Tutorial level:** Intermediate

**Time:** 20 minutes

.. contents:: Contents
   :depth: 2
   :local:

Prerequisites
-------------

> Before starting this tutorial,
> it is recommended to have completed the following tutorials on launching nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before starting this tutorial, it is recommended to have completed the following tutorials on launching nodes:
```

* :doc:`Launching Multiple Nodes <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Launching-Multiple-Nodes/Launching-Multiple-Nodes>`
* :doc:`Creating Launch files <../../Intermediate/Launch/Creating-Launch-Files>`

Background
----------

> Where unit tests focus on validating a very specific piece of functionality,
> integration tests go all the way in the other direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where unit tests focus on validating a very specific piece of functionality, integration tests focus on validating the interaction between pieces of code.
```

> In ROS 2 this means launching a system of one or several nodes,
> for example the Gazebo simulator and the Nav2 navigation stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In ROS 2 this is often accomplished by launching a system of one or several nodes, for example the `Gazebo simulator <https://gazebosim.org/home>`__ and the `Nav2 navigation <https://github.com/ros-planning/navigation2.git>`__ stack.
```

As a result, these tests are more complex both to set up and to run.

> A key aspect of ROS 2 integration testing is that nodes part of different tests
> shouldn't communicate with each other, even when run in parallel,
> which will be achieved here using a specific test runner
> that picks unique ROS domain id's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A key aspect of ROS 2 integration testing is that nodes that are part of different tests
shouldn't communicate with each other, even when run in parallel.
This will be achieved here using a specific test runner that picks unique :doc:`ROS domain IDs <../../../Concepts/Intermediate/About-Domain-ID>`.
```

In addition, integration tests have to fit in the overall testing workflow.
A standardized approach is to ensure each test outputs an XUnit file,
which are easily parsed using common test tooling.

Overview
--------

> The main tool in use here is the
> `launch_testing <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing/index.html>`_
> package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main tool in use here is the `launch_testing <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing/index.html>`_ package
```

(`launch_testing repository <https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/launch_testing>`_).

> This ROS-agnostic functionality allows to extend a classic Python launch file
> with both active tests (that run while the nodes are also running)
> and post-shutdown tests (which run once after all nodes have exited).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ROS-agnostic functionality can extend a Python launch file
with both active tests (that run while the nodes are also running)
and post-shutdown tests (which run once after all nodes have exited).
```

``launch_testing`` relies on the Python standard module
`unittest <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_
for the actual testing.

> Hence, preferably avoid mixing with ``pytest``.
> If you prefer using pytest for integration tests,
> you will want to use the package
> `launch_pytest <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_pytest/index.html>`_
> (`launch_pytest repository <https://github.com/ros2/launch/tree/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/launch_pytest>`_),
> though this tutorial will discuss using unittest.

Reviewer: This part isn't actually true; we have tests in the core which mix `launch_testing` with `pytest`, like https://github.com/ros2/ros2cli/blob/rolling/ros2lifecycle/test/test_cli.py .  So I'd just remove this whole bit:

```suggestion
```

> To get our integration tests run as part of ``colcon test``,
> we register the launch file in the ``CMakeLists.txt``.
> To finish, we will briefly touch
> on how to run these tests and inspect the test results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get our integration tests run as part of ``colcon test``, we register the launch file in the ``CMakeLists.txt``.
To finish, we will briefly touch on how to run these tests and inspect the test results.
```

Besides this, it might also be good to discuss how this works for pure-Python packages as well.

Steps
-----

1 Describe the test in the test launch file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Both the nodes under test and the tests themselves are launched
> using a Python launch file, which resembles a classic ROS 2 Python launch file.
> It is custom to let the integration test launch file names
> follow the pattern ``test/test_*.py``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the nodes under test and the tests themselves are launched using a Python launch file, which resembles a ROS 2 Python launch file.
It is customary to make the integration test launch file names follow the pattern ``test/test_*.py``.
```

> There are two common types of tests in integration testing:
> active tests, which run while the nodes under test are running,
> and post-shutdown tests, which are run after exiting the nodes.
> We will cover both in this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two common types of tests in integration testing: active tests, which run while the nodes under test are running, and post-shutdown tests, which are run after exiting the nodes.
We will cover both in this tutorial.
```

1.1 Imports
~~~~~~~~~~~

> The top imports the Python modules we will be using.
> Only two modules are specific to testing:
> the general-purpose ``unittest``, and ``launch_testing``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We first start by importing the Python modules we will be using.
Only two modules are specific to testing: the general-purpose ``unittest``, and ``launch_testing``.
```

.. code-block:: python

  import os
  import sys
  import time
  import unittest

  import launch
  import launch_ros
  import launch_testing.actions
  import rclpy
  from turtlesim.msg import Pose

1.2 Generate the test description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The function ``generate_test_description`` describes what to launch,
> similar to ``generate_launch_description``
> in a classic ROS 2 Python launch file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function ``generate_test_description`` describes what to launch, similar to ``generate_launch_description``
in a ROS 2 Python launch file.
```

> In the example below, we launch the turtlesim node
> and half a second later our tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, we launch the turtlesim node and half a second later our tests.
```

> In more complex integration test setups, you will probably want
> to launch a system of several nodes, together with additional nodes
> that performing mocking or must otherwise interact with the nodes under test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In more complex integration test setups, you will probably want to launch a system of several nodes, together with additional nodes
that performing mocking or must otherwise interact with the nodes under test.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In more complex integration test setups, you will probably want
to launch a system of several nodes, together with additional nodes
that perform mocking or must otherwise interact with the nodes under test.
```

Including existing (XML) launch files - to avoid launch file duplication -

> is supported.

Reviewer: Can you explain more about what this sentence means?  The rest of this tutorial talks about Python launch files, so for consistency I think we should probably stick to Python launch files here.

Author: Removed in 5f46b89d24ef, it's not that relevant in this tutorial and is likely to confuse the reader.

What I meant with this: Instead of listing all nodes here, which is likely mostly a repetition of an already existing launch file, we can also include an existing Python, XML or YAML launch file. For example using `XMLLaunchDescriptionSource`:
```python3
            [
                # System under test
                IncludeLaunchDescription(
                    XMLLaunchDescriptionSource([os.path.join(
                        get_package_share_directory('app'),
                        'launch/turtles.launch.xml')])),
                # Launch tests 0.5 s later
                launch.actions.TimerAction(
                    period=0.5, actions=[launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()]),
            ]
        ),
```

.. code-block:: python

  def generate_test_description():
      return (
          launch.LaunchDescription(
              [
                  # Nodes under test
                  launch_ros.actions.Node(
                      package='turtlesim',
                      namespace='',
                      executable='turtlesim_node',
                      name='turtle1',
                  ),
                  # Launch tests 0.5 s later
                  launch.actions.TimerAction(
                      period=0.5, actions=[launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()]),
              ]
          ), {},
      )

1.3 Active tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The active tests interact with the running nodes. In this tutorial,
> we will check whether the Turtlesim node publishes pose messages
> (by listening to the node's 'turtle1/pose' topic)
> and whether it logs that it spawned the turtle
> (by listening to stderr).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The active tests interact with the running nodes.
In this tutorial, we will check whether the Turtlesim node publishes pose messages (by listening to the node's 'turtle1/pose' topic)
and whether it logs that it spawned the turtle (by listening to stderr).
```

Reviewer 3: @abaeyens we are not consistent in the capitalization of `turtlesim`. To remain consistent with the other docs we should probably go with no capitalization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The active tests interact with the running nodes. In this tutorial,
we will check whether the turtlesim node publishes pose messages
(by listening to the node's 'turtle1/pose' topic)
and whether it logs that it spawned the turtle
(by listening to stderr).
```

The active tests are defined as methods of a class inheriting
from `unittest.TestCase <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html#unittest.TestCase>`_.
The child class, here ``TestTurtleSim``, contains the following methods:

> - ``test_*``:
>   the test methods, each performing some ROS communication
>   with the nodes under test and/or listening to the process output
>   (passed in through ``proc_output``).
>   They are executed sequentially.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``test_*``: the test methods, each performing some ROS communication with the nodes under test and/or listening to the process output (passed in through ``proc_output``).
  They are executed sequentially.
```

> - ``setUp``, ``tearDown``:
>   respectively run before (to prepare the test fixture)
>   and after executing each test method.
>   By creating the node in the ``setUp`` method,
>   we use a different node instance for each test
>   to reduce the risk of tests contaminating each other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``setUp``, ``tearDown``: respectively run before (to prepare the test fixture) and after executing each test method.
  By creating the node in the ``setUp`` method, we use a different node instance for each test to reduce the risk of tests communicating with each other.
```

> - ``setUpClass``, ``tearDownClass``:
>   these class methods respectively run once before and after
>   executing all the test methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``setUpClass``, ``tearDownClass``: these class methods respectively run once before and after executing all the test methods.
```

It's highly recommended to go through
`launch_testing's detailed documentation on this topic <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing/index.html>`_.

.. code-block:: python

  # Active tests
  class TestTurtleSim(unittest.TestCase):
      @classmethod
      def setUpClass(cls):
          rclpy.init()

      @classmethod
      def tearDownClass(cls):
          rclpy.shutdown()

      def setUp(self):
          self.node = rclpy.create_node('test_turtlesim')

      def tearDown(self):
          self.node.destroy_node()

      def test_publishes_pose(self, proc_output):
          """Check whether pose messages published"""

>           msgs_rx = []

Reviewer 4: This pattern is what WaitForTopics attempts to help simplify. 
https://github.com/ros2/launch_ros/issues/348

Author: Thanks for pointing this out, I'll look into that.

Author: Mentioned the `launch_testing_ros` package and `WaitForTopics` in c28db38b.

          sub = self.node.create_subscription(
              Pose, 'turtle1/pose',
              lambda msg: msgs_rx.append(msg), 100)
          try:
              # Listen to the pose topic for 10 s
              end_time = time.time() + 10
              while time.time() < end_time:
                  # spin to get subscriber callback executed
                  rclpy.spin_once(self.node, timeout_sec=1)
              # There should have been 100 messages received
              assert len(msgs_rx) > 100
          finally:
              self.node.destroy_subscription(sub)

      def test_logs_spawning(self, proc_output):
          """Check whether logging properly"""
          proc_output.assertWaitFor(
              'Spawning turtle [turtle1] at x=',
              timeout=5, stream='stderr')

> Note that the way we listen to the 'turtle1/pose' topic
> in ``test_publishes_pose`` differs from
> :doc:`the usual approach <../../Beginner-Client-Libraries/Writing-A-Simple-Py-Publisher-And-Subscriber>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the way we listen to the 'turtle1/pose' topic in ``test_publishes_pose`` differs from :doc:`the usual approach <../../Beginner-Client-Libraries/Writing-A-Simple-Py-Publisher-And-Subscriber>`.
```

> Instead of calling the blocking ``rclpy.spin``,
> we trigger the ``spin_once`` method -
> which executes the first open callback
> (so, our subscriber callback if a message arrived within 1 s) -
> until we have gathered all messages published over the last 10 s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of calling the blocking ``rclpy.spin``, we trigger the ``spin_once`` method - which executes the first available callback (our subscriber callback if a message arrived within 1 second) - until we have gathered all messages published over the last 10 seconds.
```

> If you want to go further, you can implement yourself a third test
> that publishes a twist message, asking the turtle to move,
> and subsequently checks that it moved
> by asserting that the pose message changed,
> effectively automating part of the
> `Turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to go further, you can implement a third test that publishes a twist message, asking the turtle to move, and subsequently checks that it moved by asserting that the pose message changed,
effectively automating part of the `Turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`.
```

1.4 Post-shutdown tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The classes marked with the ``launch_testing.post_shutdown_test`` decorator
> are run after letting the nodes under test exit.
> A typical test here is whether the nodes exited cleanly,
> for which ``launch_testing`` provides the method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The classes marked with the ``launch_testing.post_shutdown_test`` decorator are run after letting the nodes under test exit.
A typical test here is whether the nodes exited cleanly, for which ``launch_testing`` provides the method
```

`asserts.assertExitCodes <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing/launch_testing.asserts.html#launch_testing.asserts.assertExitCodes>`_.

.. code-block:: python

  # Post-shutdown tests
  @launch_testing.post_shutdown_test()
  class TestTurtleSimShutdown(unittest.TestCase):
      def test_exit_codes(self, proc_info):
          """Check if the processes exited normally."""
          launch_testing.asserts.assertExitCodes(proc_info)

2 Register the test in the CMakeLists.txt
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Registering the test in the ``CMakeLists.txt`` fulfills two functions:
it integrates it in the ``CTest`` framework ROS 2 CMake-based packages rely on
(and hence it will be called when running ``colcon test``),
and it also allows to specify *how* the test is to be run -

> in this case, with a unique domain id to ensure test isolation.

Reviewer: This sentence is too long; suggest to split this into two sentences (or two bullet points).

Author: Put it in bullet points in 5f46b89d24ef.

This latter aspect is realized using the special test runner
`run_test_isolated.py <https://github.com/ros2/ament_cmake_ros/blob/{REPOS_FILE_BRANCH}/ament_cmake_ros/cmake/run_test_isolated.py>`_.

> To ease adding several integration tests,
> we define the CMake function ``add_ros_isolated_launch_test``
> such that each additional test requires only a single line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ease adding several integration tests, we define the CMake function ``add_ros_isolated_launch_test`` such that each additional test requires only a single line.
```

.. code-block:: cmake

  cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.8)
  project(app)

  ########
  # test #
  ########

  if(BUILD_TESTING)
    # Integration tests
    find_package(ament_cmake_ros REQUIRED)
    find_package(launch_testing_ament_cmake REQUIRED)
    function(add_ros_isolated_launch_test path)
      set(RUNNER "${ament_cmake_ros_DIR}/run_test_isolated.py")
      add_launch_test("${path}" RUNNER "${RUNNER}" ${ARGN})
    endfunction()
    add_ros_isolated_launch_test(test/test_integration.py)
  endif()

3 Dependencies and package organization
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Finally, to avoid surprises,
> add the following dependencies to your ``package.xml``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, add the following dependencies to your ``package.xml``:
```

.. code-block:: XML

  <test_depend>ament_cmake_ros</test_depend>
  <test_depend>launch</test_depend>
  <test_depend>launch_ros</test_depend>
  <test_depend>launch_testing</test_depend>
  <test_depend>launch_testing_ament_cmake</test_depend>
  <test_depend>rclpy</test_depend>
  <test_depend>turtlesim</test_depend>

> After following the above steps, your package (here named 'app')
> ought to look as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After following the above steps, your package (here named 'app') ought to look as follows:
```

.. code-block::

  app/
    CMakeLists.txt
    package.xml
    tests/
        test_integration.py

> Concerning package organization:
> Integration tests can be part of any ROS package.
> One can dedicate one or more packages to just integration testing,
> or alternatively add them to the package of which they test the functionality.
> In this tutorial, we go with the first option
> as we will test the existing Turtlesim node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration tests can be part of any ROS package.
One can dedicate one or more packages to just integration testing, or alternatively add them to the package of which they test the functionality.
In this tutorial, we go with the first option as we will test the existing Turtlesim node.
```

4 Running tests and report generation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
4.1 Running with colcon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Running all tests is straightforward: simply run
> :doc:`colcon test <../../Intermediate/Testing/CLI>`.
> This command suppresses the test output
> and exposes little about which tests succeed and which fail.
> Useful therefore while developing tests is the option
> to print all test output while the tests are running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Running all tests is straightforward: simply run :doc:`colcon test <../../Intermediate/Testing/CLI>`.
This command suppresses the test output and exposes little about which tests succeed and which fail.
Therefore while developing tests the ``--event-handlers`` option is useful to print all test output while the tests are running:
```

.. code-block:: console

  colcon test --event-handlers console_direct+

4.2 Visualizing test results
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
For viewing the results, there's a separate colcon verb. For example,

.. code-block:: console

  $ colcon test-result --all          
  build/app/Testing/20241013-0810/Test.xml: 1 tests, 0 errors, 1 failure, 0 skipped
  build/app/test_results/app/test_test_integration.py.xunit.xml: 3 tests, 0 errors, 1 failure, 0 skipped

  Summary: 4 tests, 0 errors, 2 failures, 0 skipped

> lists two files:
> one ctest-formatted XML file (a result of the ``CMakeLists.txt``) and,
> more interestingly, also an XUnit-formatted XML file.
> This latter is suitable for automatic report generation
> in automated testing in CI/CD pipelines.
> If we would have also added unit tests, their XUnit files
> would show up as well here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command lists two files:
* a ctest-formatted XML file (a result of the ``CMakeLists.txt``)
* an XUnit-formatted XML file, which is suitable for automatic report generation in automated testing in CI/CD pipelines.

If we would have also added unit tests, their XUnit files would show up as well here.
```

A suitable tool to visualize them all together is the
`NodeJS package Xunit Viewer <https://github.com/lukejpreston/xunit-viewer>`_.
It converts the XUnit files to HTML or straight into the terminal.
For example, command and response (without highlighting):

.. code-block:: console

  $ xunit-viewer -r build/app/test_results -c
    app.test_integration.launch_tests
        ✗ test_publishes_pose time=0.52
          - Traceback (most recent call last):
    File "/home/user/ros_workspace/src/app/test/test_integration.py", line 67, in test_publishes_pose
        assert len(msgs_rx) > 100
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
    AssertionError
        ✓ test_exit_codes time=0.0
        ✓ test_logs_spawning time=0.197

  1 failure, 2 passed

>   Written to: /home/user/ros_workspace/index.html

Reviewer: I'm actually going to suggest that we don't have this bit in here, because we haven't suggested to install this earlier.

Reviewer 4: I think this can go in its own tutorial because it applies to any kind of tests, including unit tests too!

Reviewer 3: I would go with @Ryanf55 here and say that we link it as a follow on tutorial at the end.

Author: Shall we add it to the existing running tests tutorial? Proposal in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/4881/commits/05f16a7cc7d5f280dd6bc119a5d5410fe0179138.

Summary
-------

In this tutorial, we explored the process of creating and running

> integration tests on the ROS 2 Turtlesim node. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
integration tests on the ROS 2 turtlesim node. 
```

> In this tutorial, we explored the process of creating and running
> integration tests on the ROS 2 Turtlesim node. 
> We discussed the integration test launch file
> and covered writing active tests and post-shutdown tests.
> To recap, the four key elements of the integration test launch file are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we explored the process of creating and running integration tests on the ROS 2 Turtlesim node. 
We discussed the integration test launch file and covered writing active tests and post-shutdown tests.
To recap, the four key elements of the integration test launch file are:
```

> * The function ``generate_test_description``:
>   same as the classic way of launching nodes
>   (basically, it replaces ``generate_launch_description``).
>   It launches our nodes under tests as well as our tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The function ``generate_test_description``: This launches our nodes under tests as well as our tests.
```

> * ``launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()``:
>   alerts the test framework that the tests should be run.
>   This ensures that the active tests and the nodes are run synchronously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``launch_testing.actions.ReadyToTest()``: This alerts the test framework that the tests should be run, and ensures that the active tests and the nodes are run together.
```

> * An undecorated class inheriting from ``unittest.TestCase``:
>   houses the active tests, including set up and teardown.
>   One has access to the ROS logging through ``proc_output``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An undecorated class inheriting from ``unittest.TestCase``: This houses the active tests, including set up and teardown, and gives access to ROS logging through ``proc_output``.
```

> * A second class inheriting from ``unittest.TestCase``,
>   decorated with ``@launch_testing.post_shutdown_test()``.
>   As the name implies, these tests run after all nodes have shutdown.
>   A common assert here is to check the exit codes,
>   to ensure all nodes exited cleanly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A second class inheriting from ``unittest.TestCase`` decorated with ``@launch_testing.post_shutdown_test()``: These are tests that run after all nodes have shutdown; it is common to assert that the nodes exited cleanly.
```

> The launch test is subsequently registered in the ``CMakeLists.txt``
> using the custom cmake macro ``add_ros_isolated_launch_test``
> that ensures that each launch test runs with a unique ``ROS_DOMAIN_ID``,
> avoiding undesired cross communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The launch test is subsequently registered in the ``CMakeLists.txt`` using the custom cmake macro ``add_ros_isolated_launch_test`` which ensures that each launch test runs with a unique ``ROS_DOMAIN_ID``,
avoiding undesired cross communication.
```

> To finish, tools such as Xunit Viewer ease visualizing the test results
> in a more colorful way than the colcon utilities.
> We hope this tutorial gave the reader a good grasp
> of how to conduct integration tests in ROS 2,
> delineating tests, and analyzing their results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Next steps
----------
* Extend the two basic active tests with one that checks
  whether the turtle is responsive to twist commands,
  and another that verifies whether the spawn service
  sets the turtle to the intended pose

>   (see the `Turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  (see the `turtlesim introduction tutorial <../../Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim>`).
```

> * Instead of Turtlesim, launch the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Instead of turtlesim, launch the
```

>   :doc:`Gazebo simulator <../../Advanced/Simulators/Gazebo/Gazebo>`

Reviewer 3: I am not sure this is necessary. The link is just an intro Gazebo and is a bit unsatisfying. If we had a tutorial on running integration tests with Gazebo that would be worth including.

Author: Removed this section as part of https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/4881#discussion_r1865056188.

  and simulate *your* robot in there, automating tests
  that would otherwise depend on manually operating your physical robot.
* Go through the
  `launch_testing documentation <https://docs.ros.org/en/{DISTRO}/p/launch_testing/index.html>`_

>   and explore the many possibilities for integration testing it offers.

Reviewer: This is basically "homework", and while I don't necessarily disagree with it, this isn't what we do in our other tutorials.  I would suggest just removing this for now.

Author: Ah, I see. The 'Next steps' sections in other tutorials point explicitly to other tutorials, while this is indeed more "homework". Removed in https://github.com/ros2/ros2_documentation/pull/4881/commits/07e941549049e2be0a1f207272f844ab2cad759e.
